client/react-notes.md, before:

Areas to explore more:-
-react routers
-use effect hook
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BASICALLY EXPLAINING WHY/WHEN WE NEED USESTATE IN REACT------------------------------------------
🧠 React's "Declarative UI" System
React works with a declarative approach to building UIs. This means that:

You describe what the UI should look like at any given moment based on some data (like an array, a string, a number, or any other state).

React reactively updates the UI when that data changes.

🚨 The Core Concept: React's Virtual DOM
React uses something called the Virtual DOM, which is an in-memory representation of the real DOM (the actual UI on the screen).

When the UI changes (e.g., a user clicks a button), React compares the new state with the previous state of the Virtual DOM (this process is called "reconciliation"). After comparing, React efficiently updates the real DOM to reflect only the changes (not the entire page).

💡 So why do we need useState?
Initial Render (Static UI):
When you first write your UI in React, it’s static — meaning, it’s just rendered once based on the initial values of the state.

User Interaction:
When the user clicks something (like a button or a link), you want to change something on the page — like showing a popup or adding an item to a list. You need state to track changes (like whether the popup is shown or hidden).

React and the Virtual DOM:
React doesn’t know about changes unless the state changes. When you update the state, React knows that the UI needs to change, and it re-renders the components based on the new state.

🚀 Why useState and Dynamic Behavior?
Without useState, React wouldn’t know when to update the UI.

If you click a button or type something in an input, and you don’t use state, React won’t notice the change and the UI won’t update.

With useState, React tracks the state variable, and when that state changes (like when the user clicks a button), React automatically updates the UI to reflect the new state.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOMETIME WE WHEN USING onClick we do onClick={func1} or sometimes onClick={()=>func1(dd)}

Without arguments: Use onClick={functionName} to directly reference the function.

With arguments: Use onClick={() => functionName(arg)} to pass arguments or include extra logic, preventing immediate execution during render because the arguement might not have the correct 
value because we immediately re-render.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
USEEFFECT IN REACT

React is responsible for rendering your UI — the stuff inside your components.
But things like 
-scrolling the page
-updating the document.body
- working with timers
- or calling APIs 
happen outside of React’s render system.


USEEFFECT CLEANUP
useEffect runs after the component renders. Sometimes, you want to do something when the component unmounts or when the effect needs to be cleaned up.

To handle this, React allows you to return a cleanup function from within useEffect
Cleanup Flow:
useEffect runs when the component mounts (or when dependencies change).
The cleanup function runs when the component unmounts.

SYNTAX-----------------------
return function cleanup() {
  // Cleanup logic here
};

OR

return () => {
  // Cleanup logic here
};
------------------------------

useEffect → Runs code in response to something changing
Think of it like: “when something happens, do something.”
You use it when:
-You want to respond to a change (like a button click, or a modal opening).
-You need to do something outside of rendering, like:
-Fetching data
-Changing the page title
-Listening to scroll or keyboard events
-Editing the document.body (like disabling scroll)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

useState → Stores and updates data (state)
Think of it like memory for your component.
You use it when:
-You want to store some value (like a number, string, object).
-You want the UI to re-render when that value changes.

 
React setState Timing – Notes
setState() is asynchronous. It schedules a re-render; it doesn't update the state immediately.

Wrong: (this sees old state)

js---
setShowModal(true);
if (showModal) {
  console.log("Show modal"); // ❌ Still false
}
Correct: (JSX checks after state update)

jsx---
{showModal && <Modal />} // ✅ Runs after re-render
For logic after state change:

js---
useEffect(() => {
  if (showModal) {
    // ✅ This runs after state is updated
    doSomething();
  }
}, [showModal]);
If you want an immediate flag (without causing re-render):

js---
const modalFlag = useRef(false);
modalFlag.current = true; // ✅ Immediate
Summary Table:

Code	Sees New State?	When It Runs
if (showModal) after setState	❌ No	Before re-render
{showModal && <Modal />}	✅ Yes	During re-render
useEffect([showModal])	✅ Yes	After re-render
ref.current	✅ Yes	Immediately (no render)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

useEffect → Runs code in response to something changing
Think of it like: “when something happens, do something.”
You use it when:
-You want to respond to a change (like a button click, or a modal opening).
-You need to do something outside of rendering, like:
-Fetching data
-Changing the page title
-Listening to scroll or keyboard events
-Editing the document.body (like disabling scroll)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


useRef → We use useRef in React for two main reasons:

-Access DOM elements directly — like focusing an input or controlling a video.
-Store values that don’t trigger re-renders — like keeping track of a timer ID or previous state.
-Think of useRef like a box that holds something — it doesn't change the UI when it updates, but it stays consistent across renders

SYNTAX-----------------------------------------------

useEffect(() => {
  // code here runs when `show` changes
}, [show]);

What it means:
React will run the useEffect code whenever show changes.
In your case, that means:
When show goes from false → true (overlay opens)
Or from true → false (overlay closes)

If you left this DEPENEDENCY ARRAY empty ([]), it would 
run only once — when the component first mounts. But we
 want it to re-run every time show changes.
---------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
REACT GROUPS

Common states with group:
1. group-hover: → when parent is hovered
2. group-focus: → when parent is focused
3. group-active: → when parent is active
4. group-disabled: → when parent is disabled
etc....

It allows child elements to react to parent states, which is not normally possible with regular CSS unless you write custom selectors.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GSAP WITH REACT

❓ 1. Weren’t we avoiding direct DOM manipulation before? Why are we doing it now?
Yes, we normally avoid direct DOM manipulation in React because:

🧠 React has its own virtual DOM system
React keeps a virtual copy of the real DOM

If you change the real DOM directly, React doesn’t know about it

This causes a desync between what React thinks is on screen vs what actually is

📛 This breaks the React data flow
That’s the word you were looking for, by the way — it ruins React’s state-driven rendering model (or “reactive state model”).

✅ So why are we doing it anyway?
Because in some special cases (like GSAP animations), you have to use direct DOM manipulation:

GSAP doesn’t work with React’s virtual DOM

It animates real DOM elements frame-by-frame

That’s outside React’s rendering system

💡 Think of it like this:

“GSAP is controlling what the user sees directly — so React has to stay out of the way.”

So we either:

Accept that GSAP is imperative

Or write a React-friendly wrapper using state — but that comes with tradeoffs like performance lag or complexity
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

netlify render connect without disturbing local setup

client/react-notes.md, after:

Areas to explore more:-
-react routers
-use effect hook
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
What Vite actually does
Development mode:
-It runs a dev server so you can open your React/Vue/Svelte app in the browser instantly.
-It doesn’t bundle everything up front — it sends files to the browser as you need them (using ES modules).
-This means no more waiting 30 seconds after every change — hot reloads are almost instant.

Production build mode:
-When you run vite build, it takes all your code, bundles it into optimized files, minifies it, and prepares it for deployment.
-It uses Rollup under the hood for the production build.
-Env variable handling:
-It has special rules for .env files — only variables prefixed with VITE_ get exposed to your frontend code.

Why it’s popular
-Fast refresh → saves you from rage-quitting while coding.
-Simple config → most things work without touching a config file.
-Modern by default → uses ES modules, ships minimal code, and supports TypeScript, JSX, CSS, etc. out of the box.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BASICALLY EXPLAINING WHY/WHEN WE NEED USESTATE IN REACT------------------------------------------
🧠 React's "Declarative UI" System
React works with a declarative approach to building UIs. This means that:

You describe what the UI should look like at any given moment based on some data (like an array, a string, a number, or any other state).

React reactively updates the UI when that data changes.

🚨 The Core Concept: React's Virtual DOM
React uses something called the Virtual DOM, which is an in-memory representation of the real DOM (the actual UI on the screen).

When the UI changes (e.g., a user clicks a button), React compares the new state with the previous state of the Virtual DOM (this process is called "reconciliation"). After comparing, React efficiently updates the real DOM to reflect only the changes (not the entire page).

💡 So why do we need useState?
Initial Render (Static UI):
When you first write your UI in React, it’s static — meaning, it’s just rendered once based on the initial values of the state.

User Interaction:
When the user clicks something (like a button or a link), you want to change something on the page — like showing a popup or adding an item to a list. You need state to track changes (like whether the popup is shown or hidden).

React and the Virtual DOM:
React doesn’t know about changes unless the state changes. When you update the state, React knows that the UI needs to change, and it re-renders the components based on the new state.

🚀 Why useState and Dynamic Behavior?
Without useState, React wouldn’t know when to update the UI.

If you click a button or type something in an input, and you don’t use state, React won’t notice the change and the UI won’t update.

With useState, React tracks the state variable, and when that state changes (like when the user clicks a button), React automatically updates the UI to reflect the new state.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOMETIME WE WHEN USING onClick we do onClick={func1} or sometimes onClick={()=>func1(dd)}

Without arguments: Use onClick={functionName} to directly reference the function.

With arguments: Use onClick={() => functionName(arg)} to pass arguments or include extra logic, preventing immediate execution during render because the arguement might not have the correct 
value because we immediately re-render.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
USEEFFECT IN REACT

React is responsible for rendering your UI — the stuff inside your components.
But things like 
-scrolling the page
-updating the document.body
- working with timers
- or calling APIs 
happen outside of React’s render system.


USEEFFECT CLEANUP
useEffect runs after the component renders. Sometimes, you want to do something when the component unmounts or when the effect needs to be cleaned up.

To handle this, React allows you to return a cleanup function from within useEffect
Cleanup Flow:
useEffect runs when the component mounts (or when dependencies change).
The cleanup function runs when the component unmounts.

SYNTAX-----------------------
return function cleanup() {
  // Cleanup logic here
};

OR

return () => {
  // Cleanup logic here
};
------------------------------

useEffect → Runs code in response to something changing
Think of it like: “when something happens, do something.”
You use it when:
-You want to respond to a change (like a button click, or a modal opening).
-You need to do something outside of rendering, like:
-Fetching data
-Changing the page title
-Listening to scroll or keyboard events
-Editing the document.body (like disabling scroll)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

useState → Stores and updates data (state)
Think of it like memory for your component.
You use it when:
-You want to store some value (like a number, string, object).
-You want the UI to re-render when that value changes.

 
React setState Timing – Notes
setState() is asynchronous. It schedules a re-render; it doesn't update the state immediately.

Wrong: (this sees old state)

js---
setShowModal(true);
if (showModal) {
  console.log("Show modal"); // ❌ Still false
}
Correct: (JSX checks after state update)

jsx---
{showModal && <Modal />} // ✅ Runs after re-render
For logic after state change:

js---
useEffect(() => {
  if (showModal) {
    // ✅ This runs after state is updated
    doSomething();
  }
}, [showModal]);
If you want an immediate flag (without causing re-render):

js---
const modalFlag = useRef(false);
modalFlag.current = true; // ✅ Immediate
Summary Table:

Code	Sees New State?	When It Runs
if (showModal) after setState	❌ No	Before re-render
{showModal && <Modal />}	✅ Yes	During re-render
useEffect([showModal])	✅ Yes	After re-render
ref.current	✅ Yes	Immediately (no render)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

useEffect → Runs code in response to something changing
Think of it like: “when something happens, do something.”
You use it when:
-You want to respond to a change (like a button click, or a modal opening).
-You need to do something outside of rendering, like:
-Fetching data
-Changing the page title
-Listening to scroll or keyboard events
-Editing the document.body (like disabling scroll)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


useRef → We use useRef in React for two main reasons:

-Access DOM elements directly — like focusing an input or controlling a video.
-Store values that don’t trigger re-renders — like keeping track of a timer ID or previous state.
-Think of useRef like a box that holds something — it doesn't change the UI when it updates, but it stays consistent across renders

SYNTAX-----------------------------------------------

useEffect(() => {
  // code here runs when `show` changes
}, [show]);

What it means:
React will run the useEffect code whenever show changes.
In your case, that means:
When show goes from false → true (overlay opens)
Or from true → false (overlay closes)

If you left this DEPENEDENCY ARRAY empty ([]), it would 
run only once — when the component first mounts. But we
 want it to re-run every time show changes.
---------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
REACT GROUPS

Common states with group:
1. group-hover: → when parent is hovered
2. group-focus: → when parent is focused
3. group-active: → when parent is active
4. group-disabled: → when parent is disabled
etc....

It allows child elements to react to parent states, which is not normally possible with regular CSS unless you write custom selectors.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GSAP WITH REACT

❓ 1. Weren’t we avoiding direct DOM manipulation before? Why are we doing it now?
Yes, we normally avoid direct DOM manipulation in React because:

🧠 React has its own virtual DOM system
React keeps a virtual copy of the real DOM

If you change the real DOM directly, React doesn’t know about it

This causes a desync between what React thinks is on screen vs what actually is

📛 This breaks the React data flow
That’s the word you were looking for, by the way — it ruins React’s state-driven rendering model (or “reactive state model”).

✅ So why are we doing it anyway?
Because in some special cases (like GSAP animations), you have to use direct DOM manipulation:

GSAP doesn’t work with React’s virtual DOM

It animates real DOM elements frame-by-frame

That’s outside React’s rendering system

💡 Think of it like this:

“GSAP is controlling what the user sees directly — so React has to stay out of the way.”

So we either:

Accept that GSAP is imperative

Or write a React-friendly wrapper using state — but that comes with tradeoffs like performance lag or complexity
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
